I recognized the roles that are placed
on me very early one persistent concept
that I observed existing in our language
in our media was that women are not only
supposed to have children they're
supposed to want to this existed
everywhere it existed in the ways that
adults spoke to me when they posed
questions in the context of when when
you get married when you have kids and
these future musings were always
presented to me like part of this
American Dream but it always felt to me
like someone else's dream you see a
value that I have always understood
about myself was that I never wanted
children and as a kid when I would try
to explain this this disconnect between
their roles and my values they often
laughed in the way that adults do with
the absurdities of children and they
tell me knowingly you'll change your
mind and people have been saying things
like that to me my whole life otherwise
polite conversation can turn intrusive
fast does your husband know do your
parents know don't you want a family
don't you want to leave anything behind
and the primary buzzword when discussing
childlessness that's selfish
there are countless reasons a woman may
have for choosing to abstain from
motherhood the majority of them not self
prioritizing but it is still socially
acceptable to publicly vilify women as
such because none of these reasons have
made it into the social narrative when I
was little and learning about the
inevitability of maternity it was never
explained to me the cominis of these
factors that women consider like the
risk of passing on hereditary illness
the danger of having to stop life-saving
medication the duration of your
pregnancy concern about overpopulation
your access to resources and the fact
that there are four hundred and fifteen
thousand children in the foster care
system in the United States at any given
time reasons like these many more and
the fact that I don't like to leave
things of this magnitude to chance all
informed my decision to become
surgically sterilized I began my
research eagerly I wanted to fully
understood all that was going to come
with undergoing a tubal ligation which
is just another word for getting your
tubes tied honest no approval to
aftermath satisfaction rates risks
statistics and at first I was empowered
you see the way the narrative has
already been taught to me I would have
thought that women who didn't want
children were so rare and then I learned
one in five American women won't be
having a biological child some by choice
some by chance but I was not alone but
the more I read the more disheartened I
became I read women's stories trying
desperately to get this procedure I
learned how common it was for women to
exhaust their finances appealing to
dozens of OBGYNs over many years only to
be turned down so many times often with
such blatant disrespect that they just
gave up women reported that medical
practitioners were often condescending
and dismissive of their motivations
being told things like come back when
you're married with a child but women
who did have children who went to go get
this procedure we're told they were too
young or they didn't have enough
children which is very interesting
because the legal requirements in my
state for getting this kind of surgery
were be at least 21 years old a pier of
sound mind acting of your own accord and
have a 30-day waiting period and I was
perplexed that I could meet all of these
legal requirements and still have to
face a battle in the exam room for my
bodily autonomy and it was daunting but
I was determined I remember I dressed so
professionally to that first appointment
i sat up straight
I spoke clearly I wanted to give that
doctor every piece of evidence that I
was not the date of birth in that file I
made sure to mention things like I just
got my bachelor's degree and I'm
applying to these doctoral programs I'm
gonna study these things and my
long-term partner has this kind of
business and I've done research on this
first months I understand everything
about it all the risks because I needed
the doctor to know that this was not a
win not reactionary not you're
20-something looking to go out and party
without fear of getting knocked up
this supported something integral to who
I was and I understand informed consent
so I fully expected to be reeducate Adan
how it all worked but at one point the
information being given to me started to
feel agenda interlaced with bias and
inflated statistics the questions began
to feel interrogative at first they were
asking me questions it seemed to
understand my situation better and then
it seemed like they were asking
questions to try to trip me up I felt
like I was on the witness stand being
cross-examined the doctor asked me about
my partner how does he or she feel about
all of this well I've been with the same
man for five years and he fully supports
any decision I make for my body and he
said well what happens in the future
what happens you change partners what
happens when that person wants children
and I didn't quite know how to react to
that because what I was hearing was this
doctor tell me that I'm supposed to
disregard everything I believe if a
partner demands children so I told him
not to worry about that my stance on
childbearing has always been first aid
conversation
he then asks me to consider how in 20
years you could really come to regret
this as though I hadn't I am I told him
okay if I wake up one day and realize
you know I wish I'd made a different
decision back then the truth is I had
only removed a single path to Parenthood
I never need a biology to form family
anyway
and I would much rather deal with that
any day then deal with one day waking up
realize I'd had a child that I didn't
really want or was prepared to care for
because one of these affects only me the
other affects a child their development
their well-being and human beings are
not to be gambled with he then tells me
why no one was going to approve this
procedure certainly not he because of a
concept called medical paternalism which
allows which allows him as my
well-informed provider to make decisions
for me based on his perception of my
best interest regardless of what I as
the patient want her belief he takes
this opportunity to step out and discuss
my case with my potential surgeon and
through the door I hear him describe me
as a little girl I was so offended I
wanted to defend myself I wanted to
explicitly explain to each one of these
providers how they were treating me that
it was belittling and sexist and I
didn't have to take it but I did take it
I swallowed every sharp word in my
throat clench my jaw and instead
answered each one of their condescending
questions and statements I had come here
looking for objectivity and support and
instead I felt dismissed and silenced
and I hated myself for it I hate it that
I was letting people disrespect me
repeatedly but this was my one shot
that was one of multiple consultations
that I had to go to at one point I had
seen five or six medical professionals
in the same hour the door to the exam
room felt more like the door to a clown
car
there's my primary there's his colleague
the director okay and it felt like I was
asking them to infect me with smallpox
instead of no no obtained birth control
but I I didn't waver and I was
persistent and I eventually convinced
one of them to allow the procedure and
even as I am in the room signing the
consent forms and getting the hormone
shots and tying up loose ends
my doctor is shaking his head in
disapproval you'll change your mind I
never really I never really understood
how strongly the society clings to this
role until I went through this I
experienced firsthand repeatedly how
people be it medical providers
colleagues strangers or completely were
literally unable to separate me being a
woman from me being a mother and I've
always believed that having children was
an extension of womanhood not the
definition I believe that a woman's
value should never be determined by
whether or not she has a child because
that strips her of her entire identity
as an adult unto herself women have this
amazing ability to create life but when
we say that that is her perp
that says that her entire existence is a
means to an end it's so easy to forget
the roles of society places on us are so
much more than mere titles what about
the weight that comes with them the
pressure to conform to these standards
the fear associated with questioning
them and the desires that we cast aside
to accept them there are many paths to
happiness and fulfillment they all look
very different but I believe that
everyone is paved with the right to
self-determination I want women to know
that your choice to embrace or forego
motherhood is on anyway
tie to your worthiness or identity as
spouses as adults or as women and there
absolutely is a choice by maternity and
it is yours and yours alone thank you
[Applause]